In this lecture, we are going to optimize the attributes for the team member.
BLOCK So far, the attributes are being saved in the HTML comment off the block.
However, most of the attributes values can be retrieved directly from the HTML by storing attribute
data in a comment, the size of a database entry can become significant.
Ideally, we should reduce the amount of data stored in the database.
The best way to reduce the clutter in a block is by updating our attributes.
We can instruct WordPress to search for attribute values from the template as opposed to the HTML comment.
This step is completely optional, but recommend it.
Let's give it a try in your editor.
Open the block JSON file.
Let's go through the attributes one by one, starting with the name of the team member.
First we must tell WordPress to search for the attributes value from a thin an HTML tag.
We can do so by setting the source property to HTML.
These source property can configure the source of the value by setting it to HTML.
The source of the attributes value can be found within the HTML of the block.
After setting the source at a property called Selector.
The value for this property will be the following dot author meta strong.
The selector property allows us to select a specific element from within the block.
The element selected by this property should contain the value foreign attributes.
We're using a valid CSS selector.
All CSS selectors are supported.
In this case, we're selecting the strong tag.
Keep in mind, we're selecting the elements from the template saved in the database.
It's the final rendered version of our block.
The name is finished.
Let's move on to the next two attributes.
The process is going to be the same for the title.
Set the source property to HTML.
The selector will be the following dot author meta span.
Next, let's update the bio.
The source for the value can be found in the HTML.
Let's use the following selector.
Dot member bio p.
We can start modifying the attributes for the image.
The next attribute is the ID for the image.
Unlike the other attributes, this attribute is not stored in the HTML of the block.
For this reason, we're not going to modify this attributes configuration settings.
The ID of an image does not take up room.
It's safe to store it in the comment.
Next on our list is the image alt attributes.
Let's set the source property to attribute.
This time the attributes value can be found within an HTML elements attributes.
Typically, we would extract this information from the contents of a tag.
In some cases, we may need to retrieve this information from an attribute after specifying the source.
Set the selector property to image.
Next we can add the attribute property to specify an attribute.
The value for this attribute can be found from the alt attribute of the image tag.
The same values can be applied to the image URL attribute.
Let's copy these properties over to this attribute.
The attribute property can be updated to the source attribute of an image.
We're almost finished.
The last attribute is the social handles attributes.
This attribute is responsible for storing the links to a team members social media profiles.
The values for this attribute are more complicated than the other attributes.
Unlike the other attributes this attributes values can be found across multiple elements.
If an attribute stores an array, we must set the source attribute to query.
The query value will instruct WordPress to create an array.
Within this array we can store objects.
The values for the object will be based on a query.
First, we must add the selector property with the following value.
Dot social links a.
Next, we can begin specifying the values to grab from this element.
Add a property called query.
The value for this property is an object of properties to add to the objects stored in the array.
The object should look similar to the objects in the array of the default value.
We will have two properties called URL and icon.
Let's add both as property names.
Each property will be an object.
Inside this object, we can create a subquery.
We must tell WordPress where to find the value for this property.
Sub query support the same properties as the main query.
For example, the URL of a social media link can be found on the h ref attribute.
Let's set the source property to attributes.
Next set the attribute property to h ref.
We do not need to specify a selector.
The query will automatically apply the selector from the parent.
We can safely assume we're selecting the anchor element.
Let's apply the same properties to the icon object.
However, the icon is not accessible on any of the attributes.
It does exist in the class.
But we're not interested in selecting the entire class.
We only want the icon name.
Unfortunately, we can't store this value from within the HTML comment.
The value must come from the templates.
To resolve our issues, let's add an extra attribute for storing this info.
Open the saved JS file.
Scroll to the div tag with the class called social links on the anchor element.
Add an attribute called data icon.
The value for this icon will be the handle dot icon property.
Now that we've stored the icon in an attribute, we can update the attributes configuration settings
to retrieve the value back on the block file.
Set the attribute property to the data icon attributes.
The attributes are complete.
Let's try testing our code in the browser.
Refresh the page.
I'm going to quickly add the team members group block along with some modifications.
Next, I'll save the past.
Lastly, all refresh the page.
After a few moments, the block is functioning perfectly.
We've successfully finished the block.
You may not need to create them often, but nested blocks are an important trick to have up your sleeve.